[MUSIC]
I'll start talking about internet
protocols, a little bit more of the detail
about internet protocols that we
haven't been looking at so far.
So Internet Protocols, I need to describe
to you what an Internet Protocol is and
a little bit about the different types
of protocols that are used in the unit
with the structure of the messages.
We've been glossing over this.
We haven't covered this information yet
because we've been talking
about using the Raspberry Pi,
connecting it to the Internet.
But from a user's perspective,
as if it were a desktop or
laptop or something like that,
and I'm sitting at the machine.
I use a browser or
something like that, right?
Connect to it and type commands,
but from a user perspective.
But once we start writing code,
and the code has to actually
connect to the Internet, then we need to
understand a little bit more in detail
about how these connections are being made
and how these messages are being made.
So, that's why we're going to start
talking about some of the features of
internet protocols, of the protocols that
define the internet, and how they work.
Okay so, key feature, unique naming.
So, every machine that's on
the internet has to have a unique name.
And, these protocols have
to define the name, right.
They have to specify a name for every,
everything on the on the internet.
So every node gets a unique host address,
every host gets a host address that
we call this an IP address, okay.
But every node on the internet
has to have its unique address.
Now, this is Module O on NAT mappings,
but we'll talk about that later.
So generally,
everything gets a unique address.
Also, message, so
these messages that are sent on
the Internet, they have a structure.
And these structures, the code that
you write, is going to have to create
these messages so you have to know
a little bit about the structure.
The internet protocols define
the standard structure of these messages.
Now if you look at any one of these
messages that goes across the internet,
you can generically, no matter what
protocol you're talking about,
you can generically cut it up
into a header or a payload.
The header has protocol
related information, okay?
Where the payload is the actual
data that you want to send.
So you want to send data,
say I want to send the words
hello world to somebody, right?
You just put hello world on the wires,
right?
You put that on the wires,
that's the payload.
But before that you have to put some
header information, some information that
the protocol needs to get that
message to where it's going to go.
For instance you might put the destination
address in the header, right.
You might put the mind type or what type,
yeah this is text or this is doc file or
something like that.
You might put information about the text,
the size of the message.
There's a lot of data that
you might put in the header,
before you add onto the message.
So the payload is the actual
data you want to send, but
the header is information that's
required by the protocol,
in order to get the message where it's
going to go, and get it there efficiently.
Internet Protocol Family,
is defined really by a set of protocols.
Really, pretty much, three protocols.
So, first there's the IP protocol,
internet protocol.
That, it does a lot of things, and we're
not going into great detail about these
protocols, but you need to know
something about these protocols.
IP protocol defines the naming scheme,
okay?
So the IP protocol defines the IP address,
right?
That's where the IP address, every host,
every machine that's on a network
has its own IP address.
And so IP protocol deals with
host-to-host connections,
so a machine to another machine,
two hosts that are on the network.
The communication between those two
machines is dealt with by the IP protocol.
And all the information that you need
to connect between two different
machines is going to be contained in
the IP protocol part of the header.
And in its unreliable communications.
So IP in general is unreliable.
What that means is when you send a message
to another from one host to another
you are not guaranteed
that message will arrive.
Not if you just use IP protocol alone
if you'll just use that alone you
would not be guaranteed
that it would arrive.
It might fail for many number of reasons.
Maybe it reaches a host, so when these
messages travel, they travel from one
machine to the next, to the next,
until they get to their destination.
Maybe it reaches a machine and
that machine drops it for some reason,
that machine has a bug.
Maybe the machine crashes and
it disappears, right?
Things like this can happen.
So for one reason or another the message
might not get to the destination.
And that's okay, with IP, if you look
at internet protocol, IP protocol.
It that's that happens
every once in a while.
So IP alone is an unreliable protocol.
Now on top of IP, in addition to IP
you're going to use either UDP or TCP.
We'll end up using TCP but
let's define these two.
UDP stands for
unreliable datagram protocol.
It is process to process communications.
So what that is,
if you remember the IP, listen up here,
IP is host to host, machine to machine.
But remember every particular machine
can have many processes running on it.
Maybe I want a machine I'm
running a web browser,
I also running World of Warcraft, okay?
So those are two processes both
communicating on the network.
So my World of Warcraft to
World of Warcraft communication
is different than my web browser to
web server communication, right.
So, UDP is Datagram Protocol.
It is working at the process-to-process.
So, that's going to allow
the web browser to communicate with web
server on the two different machines.
And that's going to allow World
of Warcraft client to communicate
World of Warcraft server
on two different machines.
So IP is handling host-to-host,
machine-to-machine, but
a UDP is refining that and
allowing to communicate process-to-process
on those two different machines.
So in order to do that, these processes
have to have names associated with them.
These network processes,
they have to have unique names as well.
These are called ports, and
we'll talk about those later.
So a process naming at this level,
the UDP level There's as a naming for
each process, each process on the network.
It's also unreliable.
So just IP is unreliable,
UDP is also unreliable.
You send a message from one process to
another, and it might not get there.
And that's okay with UDP.
Now the other protocol that you
can use instead of UDP is TCP,
Transmission Control Protocol.
TCP is also process to process
communication, just like UDP.
And it also uses the same type of process
naming, but it's reliable communication.
So what that means is
if it sends a message,
you send a message from one process
to another on a different machine,
that message is guaranteed to
arrive at the destination.
Now how does it guarantee this?
Basically by retry, so it'll send
a message and it'll wait for a response.
If it doesn't get the response,
it assumes the message didn't arrive so
it'll try again and try again and so on.
So that's built in to the TCP Protocol.
So TCP,
it's a more complicated protocol than UDP.
UDP is very cheap, because it doesn't have
to handle retrys and things like this.
TCP Protocol, it has to deal with,
it has to handle that, wait for
the reply and all this.
It's a more complicated protocol but
it gives you better guarantees,
it's reliable communication.
So TCP is generally what we'll be using.
So generally we'll be using
TCP together with IP.
You can use UDP with IP or TCP with IP and
either way that's Internet, okay?
But you notice that you have to
use IP with either TCP or UDP.
IP has to be used because the hosts
have to have their own unique naming,
IP addresses.
And then TCP or UDP had to be used so
that the processes ach get their
own different name as well.
So TCP and IDP is really
the pair that we'll be using.
You can also use a UDP and IP but
that's not what we'll probably work with.
SO TCP versus UDP just to summarize
the difference between the two,
they're called transport layer protocols.
They deal with process to process
communication is basically what it means.
TCP is connection-oriented,
so it's reliable.
When you make a connection between two
different processes that connection
exists over a period of time.
It's not just a one-off.
It assumes that it exists for a while.
Packet sequencing is supported.
So it assumes you're sending many
messages from one process to another.
So it sequences the package,
basically numbers them.
So at the receiving end, you know
what order the packets were sent in.
Okay, and that's important for
a lot of applications,
the order in which the packets
are received may matter.
Also, TCP handles flow control,
error detection, other things like this.
Error detection correction so
if there's a bit that's flipped.
Maybe there's some kind of
a electromagnetic noise that messes up
a bit, that's checked at the receiving end
using a checksum or something like that.
And flow control so it can reroute a date,
reroute a package to avoid heavy flow,
heavy congestion on the network,
things like this.
A UDP is connectionless.
UDP, it assumes it's a one off,
this one package that you're sending,
it's just one and you don't intend to send
any other or not anytime soon anyway.
So, there's not some long lasting
connection that exists when you're
doing the UDP.
It's unreliable,
it does not guarantee packet arrival.
It doesn't do packet sequencing.
So packets arrive and the order that you
sent them in might be different than
the order they were received in.
Which is okay It's also true with TCP, but
UDP doesn't attempt to label them so
you can figure out the order.
So at the receiving end, you have no idea
what order the packets were sent in,
you just know I got a bunch of packets.
Which is fine in a lot of cases,
as long as you don't care about the order.
UDP is simpler and faster than TCP because
it doesn't have to handle retries, and
flow control and all this,
error correction detection and all that.
So, that's a comparison between the two.
And we're generally going to stick
with TCP, TCP together with IP.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]